Singapore­Cambridge General Certificate of Education
                Advanced Level Higher 2 (2026)

             Mathematics
           (Syllabus 9758)

                   © MOE & Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2024
                                9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS  Page
                                                                                      3
CONTENTS                                                                              3
                                                                                      3
PREAMBLE                                                                              4
SYLLABUS AIMS                                                                         4
ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES (AO)                                                            4
USE OF A GRAPHING CALCULATOR (GC)                                                     5
LIST OF FORMULAE AND RESULTS                                                          6
INTEGRATION AND APPLICATION
SCHEME OF EXAMINATION PAPERS                                                        14
CONTENT OUTLINE                                                                     16
ASSUMED KNOWLEDGE
MATHEMATICAL NOTATION

2
                                9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

PREAMBLE

Mathematics is a basic and important discipline that contributes to the developments and understandings of
sciences and other disciplines. It is used by scientists, engineers, business analysts and psychologists, etc. to
model, understand and solve problems in their respective fields. A good foundation in mathematics and the
ability to reason mathematically are therefore essential for students to be successful in their pursuit of various
disciplines.

H2 Mathematics is designed to prepare students for a range of university courses, including mathematics,
sciences, engineering and related courses, where a good foundation in mathematics is required. It develops
mathematical thinking and reasoning skills that are essential for further learning of mathematics. Through
applications of mathematics, students also develop an appreciation of mathematics and its connections to other
disciplines and to the real world.

SYLLABUS AIMS

The aims of H2 Mathematics are to enable students to:

(a) acquire mathematical concepts and skills to prepare for their tertiary studies in mathematics, sciences,
      engineering and other related disciplines

(b) develop thinking, reasoning, communication and modelling skills through a mathematical approach to
      problem-solving

(c) connect ideas within mathematics and apply mathematics in the contexts of sciences, engineering and
      other related disciplines

(d) experience and appreciate the nature and beauty of mathematics and its value in life and other disciplines.

ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES (AO)

The assessment will test candidates' abilities to:

AO1  Use mathematical techniques and procedures
     · Recall facts, formulae and notation and use them directly.
     · Read and use information from tables, graphs, diagrams and texts.
     · Carry out straightforward mathematical procedures.

AO2  Formulate and solve problems including those in real-world contexts
     · Select relevant mathematical concept or strategy to apply.
     · Formulate problems into mathematical expressions or models.
     · Integrate mathematical concepts to solve mathematical problems.
     · Translate between equivalent forms of mathematical expressions or statements.
     · Interpret results in the context of a given problem.

AO3  Reason and communicate mathematically
     · Explain the choice of mathematical models or strategies.
     · Make deductions, inferences and generalisations.
     · Formulate conjectures and justify mathematical statements.
     · Construct mathematical arguments and proofs.

                                                    3
          9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

Approximate weightings for the assessment objectives are as follows:

AO1  30%
AO2  60%
AO3  10%

USE OF A GRAPHING CALCULATOR (GC)

The use of an approved GC without computer algebra system will be expected. The examination papers will be
set with the assumption that candidates will have access to GC. As a general rule, unsupported answers
obtained from GC are allowed unless the question states otherwise. Where unsupported answers from GC are
not allowed, candidates must present the mathematical steps using mathematical notations and not calculator
commands. For questions where graphs are used to find a solution, candidates should sketch these graphs as
part of their answers. Incorrect answers without working will receive no marks. However, if there is written
evidence of using GC correctly, method marks may be awarded.

Candidates should be aware that there are limitations inherent in GC. For example, answers obtained by tracing
along a graph to find roots of an equation may not produce the required accuracy.

LIST OF FORMULAE AND RESULTS

Candidates will be provided in the examination with a list of formulae and results.

INTEGRATION AND APPLICATION

Notwithstanding the presentation of the topics in the syllabus document, it is envisaged that some examination
questions may integrate ideas from more than one topic, and that topics may be tested in the contexts of
problem solving and application of mathematics.

Possible list of H2 Mathematics applications and contexts:

Applications and contexts                               Some possible topics involved
Kinematics and dynamics (e.g. free fall, projectile     Functions; Calculus; Vectors
motion, collisions)
                                                        Inequalities; System of linear equations; Calculus
Optimisation problems (e.g. maximising strength,
minimising surface area)                                Complex numbers; Calculus
                                                        Differential equations
Electrical circuits
                                                        Sequences and series; Probability; Sampling
Population growth, radioactive decay, heating and       distributions
cooling problems                                        Normal distribution; Probability

Financial maths (e.g. banking, insurance)

Standardised testing

                                                     4
         9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

Applications and contexts                        Some possible topics involved

Market research (e.g. consumer preferences, product Sampling distributions; Hypothesis testing;

claims)                                          Correlation and regression

Clinical research (e.g. correlation studies)     Sampling distributions; Hypothesis testing;
                                                 Correlation and regression

The list illustrates some types of contexts in which the mathematics learnt in the syllabus may be applied, and is
by no means exhaustive. While problems may be set based on these contexts, no assumptions will be made
about the knowledge of these contexts. All information will be self-contained within the problem.

SCHEME OF EXAMINATION PAPERS

For the examination in H2 Mathematics, there will be two 3-hour papers, each carrying 50% of the total mark,
and each marked out of 100, as follows:

PAPER 1 (3 hours)
A paper consisting of 10 to 12 questions of different lengths and marks based on the Pure Mathematics section
of the syllabus.

There will be one question on application of Mathematics in real-world contexts, including those from sciences
and engineering. This question will carry at least 12 marks and may require concepts and skills from more than
one topic.

Candidates will be expected to answer all questions.

PAPER 2 (3 hours)
A paper consisting of two sections, Sections A and B.

Section A (Pure Mathematics ­ 40 marks) will consist of 4 to 5 questions of different lengths and marks based
on the Pure Mathematics section of the syllabus.

Section B (Probability and Statistics ­ 60 marks) will consist of 6 to 8 questions of different lengths and marks
based on the Probability and Statistics section of the syllabus.

There will be one question in Section B on application of Mathematics in real-world contexts, including those
from sciences and engineering. This question will carry at least 12 marks and may require concepts and skills
from more than one topic.

Candidates will be expected to answer all questions.

                                              5
               9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

CONTENT OUTLINE

Knowledge of the content of the O-Level Mathematics syllabus is assumed. The assumed knowledge for O-
Level Additional Mathematics is appended after this section.

   Topic/Sub-topics             Content

SECTION A: PURE MATHEMATICS

1  Functions and graphs

1.1 Functions                   Include:
                                · concepts of function, domain and range
                                · inverse functions and composite functions
                                · conditions for the existence of inverse functions

                                      and composite functions
                                · domain restriction to obtain an inverse function
                                · relationship between graphs of a one-to-one

                                      function and its inverse

                                Exclude the use of the relation (fg)-1 = g-1f -1, and
                                restriction of domain to obtain a composite function.

1.2 Graphs and transformations  Include:

                                · use of a graphing calculator or a graphing
                                      software to graph a given function

                                · important characteristics of graphs such as
                                      symmetry, intersections with the axes, turning
                                      points and asymptotes of the following:

                                      y2 = ax ; x2 = by

                                   x2  +    y2   = 1
                                   a2       b2

                                   x2  - y2      = 1 ;  y2  - x2  = 1
                                   a2    b2             b2    a2

                                   y = ax + b
                                       cx + d

                                   y = ax2 + bx + c
                                           dx + e

                                · equations of asymptotes, axes of symmetry, and

                                     restrictions on the possible values of x and/or y

                                · effect of transformations on the graph of y = f ( x)

                                   as represented by y = af ( x)= , y f ( x) + a ,

                                   =y f ( x + a) and y = f (ax) and combinations of

                                      these transformations

                                · relating the graphs of y = f ( x) , y = f ( x ), and

                                   y  =  f  1    to the graph of  y = f (x)

                                            (x)

                                · simple parametric equations and their graphs

                                6
               9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

   Topic/Sub-topics             Content

1.3 Equations and inequalities  Include:

                                · formulating an equation, a system of linear

                                   equations, or inequalities from a problem situation

                                · solving an equation exactly or approximately using

                                   a graphing calculator or a graphing software

                                · solving a system of linear equations using a

                                   graphing calculator or a graphing software

                                ·  solving inequalities of the form   f  (x)  >  0  where
                                                                      g  (x)

                                     f ( x) and g ( x) are linear expressions or

                                      quadratic expressions
                                · concept of x , and use of relations

                                   x - a < b  a - b < x < a + b and

                                   x - a > b  x < a - b or x > a + b

                                · solving inequalities by graphical methods

2  Sequences and series

2.1 Sequences and series        Include:
                                · concepts of sequence and series for finite and

                                      infinite cases

                                · sequence as function y = f (n) where n is a

                                      positive integer

                                · relationship between un (the nth term) and Sn (the

                                      sum to n terms)
                                · sequence given by a formula for the nth term

                                · sequence generated by the relation un+1 = f (un ) ,

                                      including the use of a graphing calculator or a
                                      computer to generate the sequence
                                · sum and difference of two series
                                · convergence of a series and the sum to infinity
                                · formula for the nth term and the sum of a finite
                                      arithmetic series
                                · formula for the nth term and the sum of a finite
                                      geometric series
                                · condition for convergence of an infinite geometric
                                      series
                                · formula for the sum to infinity of a convergent
                                      geometric series

3  Vectors

3.1 Basic properties of vectors in two and three Include:

   dimensions                   · addition and subtraction of vectors, multiplication

                                   of a vector by a scalar, and their geometrical

                                   interpretations

                                · position vectors, displacement vectors and

                                   direction vectors

                                · magnitude of a vector

                                · unit vectors

                                · distance between two points

                                · collinearity

                                7
   9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

         Topic/Sub-topics                   Content
3.2 Scalar and vector products in vectors
                                            · use of the ratio theorem in geometrical
3.3 Three-dimensional vector geometry             applications

4  Introduction to Complex numbers          Include:
                                            · concepts of scalar product and vector product of
4.1 Complex numbers expressed in cartesian
         form and Argand diagrams                 vectors and their properties
                                            · angle between two vectors
                                            · geometrical meanings of a  n^ and a × n^ , where

                                                   n^ is a unit vector

                                            Exclude triple products a b × c and a × b × c .

                                            Include:
                                            · vector and cartesian equations of lines and planes
                                            · foot of the perpendicular and distance from a point

                                                  to a line or to a plane
                                            · angle between two lines, between a line and a

                                                  plane, or between two planes
                                            · relationships between

                                                  (i) two lines (coplanar or skew)
                                                  (ii) a line and a plane
                                                  (iii) two planes

                                            Exclude:
                                            · shortest distance between two skew lines
                                            · common perpendicular to two skew lines

                                            Include:
                                            · extension of the number system from real

                                                  numbers to complex numbers
                                            · complex roots of quadratic equations
                                            · modulus, argument and conjugate of a complex

                                                  number
                                            · four operations of complex numbers
                                            · equality of complex numbers
                                            · conjugate roots of a polynomial equation with real

                                                  coefficients
                                            · representation of complex numbers in the Argand

                                                  diagram
                                            · geometrical effects of conjugation, negation,

                                                  addition, subtraction, and multiplication by i

                                            Exclude complex numbers expressed in polar (or
                                            modulus-argument) form and exponential form.

                                            8
                     9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

   Topic/Sub-topics   Content

5  Calculus

5.1 Differentiation   Include:

                      · graphical interpretation of

                         (i)             f '( x) > 0, f '( x) = 0 and f '( x) < 0

                         (ii) f ''( x) > 0 and f ''( x) < 0

                      · relating the graph of y = f '( x) to the graph of

                         y = f (x)

                      · differentiation of simple functions defined implicitly
                            or parametrically

                      · determining the nature of the stationary points
                            (local maximum and minimum points and points of
                            inflexion) analytically, in simple cases, using the
                            first derivative test or the second derivative test

                      · locating maximum and minimum points using a
                            graphing calculator or a graphing software

                      · finding the approximate value of a derivative at a
                            given point using a graphing calculator or a
                            graphing software

                      · problems involving tangents and normals to
                            curves, including cases where the curve is defined
                            implicitly or parametrically

                      · local maxima and minima problems
                      · connected rates of change problems

                      Exclude non-stationary points of inflexion and finding
                      second derivative of functions defined parametrically.

5.2 Maclaurin series  Include:
                      · standard series expansion of (1+ x)n for any

                         rational n , ex , sin x, cosx and ln (1+ x)

                      · derivation of the first few terms of the Maclaurin
                            series by

                           - repeated differentiation, e.g. secx

                            - repeated implicit differentiation, e.g.
                                  y3 + y2 + y = x2 - 2x

                         - using standard series, e.g. ex cos 2x ,

                                   ln    1  +  x  
                                         1  -  x  

                      · range of values of x for which a standard series

                         converges

                      · concept of Maclaurin's series as an approximation
                            of a function

                      · small angle approximations: sin x  x, 

                         cos    x    1  -   1  x2  ,  tan x   x
                                            2

                      Exclude problems involving derivation of the general
                      term of a series.

                      9
9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

         Topic/Sub-topics   Content
5.3 Integration techniques
                            Include:
5.4 Definite integrals      · integration of

5.5 Differential equations      f '( x) f ( x)n (including n = -1 ), f '( x)ef (x)

                                sin2 x, cos2 x, tan2 x

                                a2  1  x2  ,    1      ,  a2   -1 x  2 and  x2  1
                                    +         a2 - x2                           - a2

                            · integration by a given substitution

                            · integration by parts

                            Exclude reduction formulae.

                            Include:
                            · concept of definite integral as a limit of sum
                            · definite integral as the area under a curve
                            · evaluation of definite integrals
                            · area of a region bounded by a curve and lines

                                  parallel to the coordinate axes, between a curve
                                  and a line, or between two curves
                            · area below the x-axis
                            · volume of revolution about the x- or y-axis
                            · finding the approximate value of a definite integral
                                  using a graphing calculator or a graphing software

                            Exclude area and volume of revolution about the x-axis
                            or y-axis where curve is defined parametrically.

                            Include:
                            · solving for the general solutions and particular

                                  solutions of differential equations of the form

                                 dy = f ( x) g ( y) , including reducing a given

                                  dx

                                  differential equation to this form by means of a
                                  given substitution
                            · formulating a differential equation from a problem
                                  situation
                            · interpreting a differential equation and its solution
                                  in terms of a problem situation

                            10
                 9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

   Topic/Sub-topics                    Content

SECTION B: PROBABILITY AND STATISTICS

6  Probability and Statistics

6.1 Probability                        Include:
                                       · addition and multiplication principles for counting
                                       · concepts of permutation ( n Pr ) and combination

                                             ( nCr )

                                       · arrangements of objects in a line or in a circle,
                                             including cases involving repetition and restriction

                                       · addition and multiplication of probabilities
                                       · mutually exclusive events and independent events
                                       · use of tables of outcomes, Venn diagrams, tree

                                             diagrams, and permutations and combinations
                                             techniques to calculate probabilities
                                       · calculation of conditional probabilities in simple
                                             cases
                                       · use of:

                                            P( A')= 1- P( A)

                                           P ( A  B)= P ( A) + P (B) - P ( A  B)

                                           P(  A|B )  =  P  ( AB)
                                                            P(B)

6.2 Discrete random variables          Include:
                                       · concept of discrete random variables, probability

                                             distributions, expectations and variances

                                       · concept of binomial distribution B(n, p) as an

                                             example of a discrete probability distribution and

                                           use of B(n, p) as a probability model, including

                                             conditions under which the binomial distribution is
                                             a suitable model
                                       · use of mean and variance of binomial distribution
                                             (without proof)

                                       Exclude finding cumulative distribution function of a
                                       discrete random variable.

                                       11
9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

         Topic/Sub-topics          Content
6.3 Normal distribution
                                   Include:
6.4 Sampling                       · concept of continuous random variables*
* For teaching and learning only.  · concept of a normal distribution as an example of

                                         a continuous probability model and its mean and

                                      ( ) variance; use of N µ, 2 as a probability model

                                   · standard normal distribution

                                   · finding the value of P ( X < x1 ) or a related

                                        probability, given the values of x1,  µ,  

                                   · symmetry of the normal curve and its properties

                                   · finding a relationship between x1,  µ,   given the

                                       value of P ( X < x1 ) or a related probability
                                   · solving problems involving the use of E (aX + b)

                                       and Var (aX + b)

                                   · solving problems involving the use of E (aX + bY )

                                       and Var (aX + bY ) , where X and Y are

                                         independent

                                   Exclude normal approximation to binomial distribution.

                                   Include:
                                   · concepts of population and simple random sample
                                   · concept of the sample mean X as a random

                                       variable with E ( X ) = µ and Var ( X ) =  2
                                                                                               n
                                   · distribution of sample mean from a normal
                                         population
                                   · use of the Central Limit Theorem to treat sample
                                         mean as having normal distribution when the
                                         sample size is sufficiently large (e.g. n  30 )
                                   · use of unbiased estimates of the population mean
                                         and variance from a sample, including cases
                                         where the data are given in summarised form  x

                                       and  x2 , or  ( x - a) and  ( x - a)2

                                   12
9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

         Topic/Sub-topics              Content
6.5 Hypothesis testing
                                       Include:
6.6 Correlation and linear regression
                                       · concepts of null hypothesis (H0 ) and alternative

                                           hypotheses (H1 ), test statistic, critical region,

                                             critical value, level of significance, and p-value
                                       · formulation of hypotheses and testing for a

                                             population mean based on
                                             - a sample from a normal population of known

                                                   variance
                                             - a large sample from any population
                                       · 1-tail and 2-tail tests
                                       · interpretation of the results of a hypothesis test in
                                             the context of the problem

                                       Exclude the use of the term `Type I error', concept of
                                       Type II error and testing the difference between two
                                       population means.

                                       Include:
                                       · use of scatter diagram to judge if there is a

                                             plausible linear relationship between the two
                                             variables
                                       · correlation coefficient as a measure of the fit of a
                                             linear model to the scatter diagram
                                       · interpreting the product moment correlation
                                             coefficient (in particular, values close to -1, 0 and
                                             1)
                                       · concepts of linear regression and method of least
                                             squares to find the equation of the regression line
                                       · concepts of interpolation and extrapolation
                                       · use of the appropriate regression line to make
                                             prediction or estimate a value in practical
                                             situations, including explaining how well the
                                             situation is modelled by the linear regression
                                             model
                                       · use of a square, reciprocal or logarithmic
                                             transformation to achieve linearity

                                       Exclude:
                                       · problems involving derivation of formulae

                                       · relationship r2 = b1b2 , where b1 and b2 are

                                             regression coefficients
                                       · hypothesis tests

                                       13
                                9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

ASSUMED KNOWLEDGE

 Content from O-Level Additional Mathematics

 ALGEBRA

 A1 Quadratic functions; Equations and inequalities
           · Finding the maximum or minimum value of a quadratic function using the method of completing
                 the square
           · Conditions for a quadratic equation to have:
                 (i) two real roots
                 (ii) two equal roots
                 (iii) no real roots
           · Conditions for ax2 + bx + c to be always positive (or always negative)
           · Solving simultaneous equations in two variables by substitution, with one of the equations being a
                 linear equation

 A2 Surds
           · Four operations on surds, including rationalising the denominator
           · Solving equations involving surds.

 A3 Polynomials and partial fractions
           · Multiplication and division of polynomials
           · Use of remainder and factor theorems
           · Partial fractions with cases where the denominator is not more complicated than:
                 - (ax + b)(cx + d)
                 - (ax + b)(cx + d)2
                 - (ax + b)(x2 + c2)

 A4 Exponential and logarithmic functions
           · Exponential and logarithmic functions ax , ex , loga x , ln x and their graphs, including:
                 - laws of logarithms
                 - equivalence of y = ax and x = logay
                 - change of base of logarithms
           · Simplifying expressions and solving simple equations involving exponential and logarithmic
                 functions

 GEOMETRY AND TRIGONOMETRY

 B5 Coordinate geometry in two dimensions
           · Coordinate geometry of the circle with the equation in the form
                 (x ­ a)2 + (y ­ b)2 = r 2 or x2 + y2 + 2gx + 2fy + c = 0

 B6 Trigonometric functions, identities and equations
           · Six trigonometric functions, and principal values of the inverses of sine, cosine and tangent
           · Trigonometric equations and identities (see List of Formulae)
          · Expression of a cos  + b sin  in the forms R sin( ± ) and R cos( ± )

                                                                         14
                              9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS
Content from O-Level Additional Mathematics
CALCULUS
C7 Differentiation and integration

         · Derivative of f(x) as the gradient of the tangent to the graph of y = f(x) at a point
         · Derivative as rate of change
         · Derivatives of xn for any rational n, sin x, cos x, tan x, ex and ln x, together with constant multiples,

               sums and differences
         · Use of Chain Rule
         · Derivatives of products and quotients of functions
         · Increasing and decreasing functions
         · Stationary points (maximum and minimum turning points and points of inflexion)
         · Use of second derivative test to discriminate between maxima and minima
         · Connected rates of change
         · Maxima and minima problems
         · Integration as the reverse of differentiation
         · Integration of xn for any rational n, ex, sin x, cos x, sec2 x and their constant multiples, sums and

               differences
         · Integration of (ax + b)n for any rational n, sin(ax + b), cos(ax + b) and eax + b

                                                                       15
                 9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

MATHEMATICAL NOTATION

The list which follows summarises the notation used in Singapore­Cambridge Mathematics examinations.
Although primarily directed towards A-Level, the list also applies, where relevant, to examinations at all other
levels.

1. Set Notation  is an element of
                 is not an element of
                 the set with elements x1, x2, ...
{x1, x2, ...}    the set of all x such that
{x: ...}         the number of elements in set A
n(A)             the empty set
                 universal set
                 the complement of the set A
A                the set of integers, {0, ±1, ±2, ±3, ...}
                 the set of positive integers, {1, 2, 3, ...}
                 the set of rational numbers
+                the set of positive rational numbers, {x  : x > 0}

+                the set of positive rational numbers and zero, {x  : x  0}
                 the set of real numbers
   +             the set of positive real numbers, {x  : x > 0}
   0
                 the set of positive real numbers and zero, {x  : x  0}
                 the real n-tuples
                 the set of complex numbers
+                is a subset of
                 is a proper subset of
   +             is not a subset of
   0             is not a proper subset of
                 union
n                intersection
                 the closed interval {x : a  x  b}
                 the interval {x : a  x < b}
                 the interval {x : a < x  b}
                 the open interval {x : a < x < b}











[a, b]

[a, b)

(a, b]

(a, b)

                       16
               9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

2. Miscellaneous Symbols

=              is equal to

               is not equal to

               is identical to or is congruent to

               is approximately equal to

               is proportional to

<              is less than

;              is less than or equal to; is not greater than

>              is greater than

;              is greater than or equal to; is not less than
               infinity


3. Operations  a1 + a2 + ... + an

  n

 ai

 i =1

na             the nth root of the real number a
a              the modulus of the real number a
               n factorial for n  +  {0}, (0! = 1)
n!

n              the binomial coefficient n! , for n, r  +  {0}, 0  r  n
                                               r!(n - r)!
   r  

               n(n -1)...(n - r +1)  , for n  , r  + {0}
                         r!

                                                    17
                              9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

4. Functions                  the function f
f                             the value of the function f at x
f(x)                          f is a function under which each element of set A has an image in set B
f: A B                        the function f maps the element x to the element y
f: x y                        the inverse of the function f
f ­1                          the composite function of f and g which is defined by gf(x) = g(f(x))
gf                            the limit of f(x) as x tends to a
                              an increment of x
lim f(x)                      the derivative of y with respect to x

 xa                           the nth derivative of y with respect to x
                              the first, second, ... nth derivatives of f(x) with respect to x
x ;  x                        indefinite integral of y with respect to x
dy
dx                            the definite integral of y with respect to x for values of x between a and b
dn y                          the first, second, ...derivatives of x with respect to time
dx n                          the partial derivative of z with respect to x

f'(x), f''(x), ..., f (n)(x)  the partial derivative of z with respect to x then with respect to y
                              the partial derivative of f with respect to x
 y dx                         the partial derivative of f with respect to x then with respect to y

   b

 y dx
   a

x , x , ...
z
x
 2z
yx

fx
fxy

5. Exponential and Logarithmic Functions

e                             base of natural logarithms

ex, exp x                     exponential function of x

log a x                       logarithm to the base a of x

ln x                          natural logarithm of x

lg x                          logarithm of x to base 10

                                                            18
                       9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

6. Circular Functions and Relations

sin, cos, tan,           the  circular        functions
cosec, sec, cot        
                       

sin­1, cos­1, tan­1      the  inverse         circular functions
cosec­1, sec­1, cot­1  
                       

7. Complex Numbers

i                      the square root of ­1

z                      a complex number, z    = x + iy
                                              = r(cos  + i sin  ), r  +

                                              = rei, r  +

Re z                   the real part of z, Re (x + iy) = x

Im z                   the imaginary part of z, Im (x + iy) = y

   z                   the modulus of z, x + iy = x2 + y2 , r(cos + i sin) = r

arg z                  the argument of z, arg(r(cos  + i sin  )) =  , ­ <   

z*                     the complex conjugate of z, (x + iy)* = x ­ iy

8. Matrices            a matrix M
M                      the inverse of the square matrix M
M­1                    the transpose of the matrix M
MT                     the determinant of the square matrix M
det M

                                                            19
9. Vectors        9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

x           a column vector in xy-plane
      
   y        a column vector in xyz-space
            the vector a
x           the vector represented in magnitude and direction by the directed line segment AB
            a unit vector in the direction of the vector a
   y        unit vectors in the directions of the cartesian coordinate axes
            the magnitude of a
 z          the magnitude of AB
            the scalar product of a and b
a           the vector product of a and b

AB

â
i, j, k

  a

 AB

a.b
a×b

            20
               9758 MATHEMATICS GCE ADVANCED LEVEL H2 SYLLABUS

10. Probability and Statistics

A, B, C, etc.  events

AB             union of events A and B

AB             intersection of the events A and B

P(A)           probability of the event A

A'             complement of the event A, the event `not A'

P(A | B)       probability of the event A given the event B

X, Y, R, etc.  random variables

x, y, r, etc.  value of the random variables X, Y, R, etc.

x1, x2, ...    observations
f1, f2,...     frequencies with which the observations, x1, x2, ...occur
p(x)           the value of the probability function P(X = x) of the discrete random variable X

p1, p2,...     probabilities of the values x1, x2, ...of the discrete random variable X
f(x), g(x)...  the value of the probability density function of the continuous random variable X
F(x), G(x)...  the value of the (cumulative) distribution function P(X  x) of the random variable X

E(X)           expectation of the random variable X
E[g(X)]        expectation of g(X)
Var(X)         variance of the random variable X
B(n, p)        binomial distribution, parameters n and p
Po()           Poisson distribution, mean 
               Geometric distribution, mean 1
Geo(p)
                                                       p

N(, 2)         normal distribution, mean  and variance 2
               population mean
2              population variance
               population standard deviation
x              sample mean
s2             unbiased estimate of population variance from a sample
               linear product-moment correlation coefficient for a sample
r

                                                   21
